auth issues (#477)
PrismLauncher/prismlauncher.org: src/news/login-isues-10-06-24.md

---

> title: Microsoft having authentication issues in some regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Microsoft authentication issues in some regions
```

> description: Microsoft login and launch check not working currently in launcher, affects other launchers and official launcher in somes cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Microsoft login and launch check not currently working in the launcher
```

> date: 2022-02-07

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2024-06-09
```

tags:
  - Authentication
---

> Hi we are aware of a current ongoing issue with the Microsoft login in Prism Launcher, we belive the issue to be with Microsofts third party auth servers in some regions experiencing outages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hi! We are aware of ongoing issues with the Microsoft login in Prism Launcher. We believe this is something to do with Microsoft's third party auth servers experiencing outages in some regions.
```

> The issue sometimes also affects the official Minecraft launcher and minecraft.net for some users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The issue also sometimes affects the official Minecraft launcher and minecraft.net.
```

> However there has not been any official statements or way to track this from Microsoft and not all users are affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, there has not been any official statements or way to track this from Microsoft and not all users are affected.
```

> Myself and many of the other maintainers have not been able to replicate the issue as we seem to be in unaffected regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Myself and many of the other maintainers have not been able to replicate the issue, as we seem to be in unaffected regions.
```

## What can I do?

> Unfortunately for current version there is not much that can be done besides trying again if it does not launch, the faults seem to intermittent and sometimes allow users to login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately in the current version, there is not much that can be done besides trying again if it does not launch. The faults seem to intermittent and only sometimes allow users to login.
```

> *Alternatively we are trialing a new authentication system for [Prism Launcher nightly version](https://nightly.link/PrismLauncher/PrismLauncher/workflows/trigger_builds/develop) that some have reported fixing the issue.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Alternatively we are trialing a new authentication system in the [nightly version](https://nightly.link/PrismLauncher/PrismLauncher/workflows/trigger_builds/develop) of Prism Launcher that some have reported fixes their issues.*
```

> *Alternatively we are trialing a new authentication system for [Prism Launcher nightly version](https://nightly.link/PrismLauncher/PrismLauncher/workflows/trigger_builds/develop) that some have reported fixing the issue.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Alternatively, we are trialing a new authentication system for [Prism Launcher nightly version](https://nightly.link/PrismLauncher/PrismLauncher/workflows/trigger_builds/develop) that some have reported fixed their issues.*
```

> *The new nightly auth system currently has a http 426 error for some users and we are working to fix that if you have that error it is unrelated to Microsoft authentication issues.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*The new nightly auth system currently has an HTTP 426 error for some users and we are working to fix that. It is unrelated to the Microsoft authentication issues mentioned here.*
```

> **The Nightly version is considered pre release software and is not stable, expect bugs.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The Nightly version is considered pre-release software and not stable. Expect bugs.**
```

## Possibly related issues

[WEB-7179 - Mojang Bug Tracker](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/WEB-7179)

> This report was made around same time these issues have started happening and affected the official launcher, We are not sure if this is the same or a related issue but it seems highly likely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This report was made around same time these issues have started happening and also affected the official launcher. We are not sure if this is the same or a related issue, but it seems highly likely.
```
